The real thing you should think about is that there's a lot of journalists and tech bloggers who monitor
Kickstarter for new and innovative products that might become tomorrow's cuple tomorrow's Tesla and
you get a huge amount of free press by just having a successful Kickstarter project.
So this is one example.
The World's Best Travel jacket by Bow backs and think about it.
It's a travel jacket and essentially it's a travel jacket with a couple of features that maybe other
jackets don't have.
Like you know a pocket for your smartphone or a detachable hood.
I guess what I'm trying to say is that it's not groundbreaking.
It's not like it's a rocket to Mars or like a mind reading headset.
Right.
It's just a product that is incrementally better than what you have already.
Not only did it raise over nine million dollars.
So they pre-sold this product to about 40000 people and raised a huge amount of money.
But also they got featured in so many places that you would just never ever be able to get in as a travel
jacket.
Right.
If you think about it why would entrepreneurship or the guardian or CNN Money write about a travel jacket
under any normal circumstance.
It's only because it was a Kickstarter and it was a hugely successful Kickstarter that they got all
of this free press that in turn provided this positive reinforcement loop which cost them more backers
more money and more press and going back to fish on wheels.
Even they were featured all over the place mostly as a tongue in cheek.
But still there was huge amount of exposure for the creators behind it who went on to do other things.
Under any normal condition you wouldn't expect a fish aquarium that's attached to wheels to appear on
national geographic or the BBC blog.
Right.
And here it is.
So what I'm trying to say is that this is the power of crowdfunding especially the big platforms like
Kickstarter and Indiegogo.
If you get a lot of traction on there and there's a lot of people who want to talk about you there's
a lot of people who want to write about you.
And it's a great opportunity of getting some free coverage.
So I hope that's gone some way towards getting you thinking about using crowdfunding as a means of raising
funding and pre-selling your product as well as getting a whole lot of exposure for your company.
And the one thing that I haven't really spoken about which I'm going to talk about a lot more later
is the fact that if you put your project onto Kickstarter Indiegogo remember that there's a lot of people
who habitually crawl the size to see what are some new and interesting things that they can buy or they
can get into so that they can be the first person who has a pebble watch or the first person who ever
owned a fidget cube.
So a big part of why crowdfunding on these big platforms work is because they also bring the people
and we're going to talk a lot more about this in the algorithms section where we talk about how you
can maximize your potential for getting customers from Kickstarter or Indiegogo itself.
So for us almost 40 percent of our Kickstarter backers had nothing to do with us.
They were not referred by us.
They didn't go onto our Web site.
They didn't see us through social media.
They discovered us solely through Kickstarter and pledged based on the video and project description.
So not only does crowdfunding carry all of those benefits that we talked about in this module but its
also a great place to get traffic and get eyeballs and most importantly people opening their wallets
to fund your project.
So I hope that's been informative on the reasons why you would go down the crowdfunding route as opposed
to other ones in the next Moto we're going to talk about the research that you need to do to prepare
for your Kickstarter.
So I'll see you there.